xliv INTRODUCTION.

J usticiar, held the Chancellorship. One of
the seals, the seal appointed to remain in
England‚ was delivered to him for the ex·
ecntinn ol the King's commands, and he
was moreovcr entrusted with the custody
ol' the Tower of London. For the Chan-
cellorship, he gave the sum of three thou-
sand marks, A competitor, “ Reginaldus
ltalus,'' offered an additional thousand.
But Richard, from his greater trust, as we
may suppose, in Longchamp, accepted the
lower tender.

In order to maintain a species of balance
between the powers of the two jealous
Prelates, the custody of Windsor Castle
together with the Forest, and also the
Shrievalty of the County of Berhs, were
granted to Bishop Pudsey. This arrange-
ment, however, was better calculated to
enable both parties to annoy each other
than to promote concord. lt was extremely
unpleasing to Pudsey: and great dissen-
sions arose between the nominal Chief Jus-
ticiar and his colleague, whose views seldom
or ever coincided.

§XXVL Richard now prepared himself Β. abbas,

in earnest for the Crusade‚ and a Council hiieioibss.

was held in Normandy, which was attended {lguffi‘n'

by Queen Eleanor, John Earl of Moreton ξδᾙὲἀὲἒ

his brother, and by various Bishops, who ῗέἔιτίωῡῖ,

are stated to have crossed the Channel by

 

