INTRODUCTION. xxix

Churoh property was considered as herit-
able and belonging to particular familias,
had subsisted of old tirne. In Ireland the
usage was already very antient‚ and long
established before the eleventh century. The
Archbishoprick of Armagh, previously to
the election of St. Malachi, continued here·
ditaryin one sept during fifteen generations. ι
And so entirely was the arehiepiscopal en·
dowrnent converted into lay fee, that the
eight last Bishops had not even received
holy orders. Such being the usage with
respect to the Primate os the Irish Church,
it cannot be doubted but that the inferior

members of the hierarchyenjoyed the sarne
privilege. AmongsttheArmoricanBretons,

an hereditary succession in the Church
equally prevailed. Theobald, the son of a
Priest, having obtained the Bishoprick os
Rennes, married the daughter of the Arch-
deacon of Nautes. When he grew old, he
retired to the Abbey ot St. Melanius, and

gave the Bishopriclr to his son Walter, and
Walter in his turn gave it to his son Warine.

These are perhaps instances rather of a
right of alienation than of inheritance: but
Duke Conan expressly attests that a pa-
rochial chureh had been granted by his
predecessors, by homage, to married Clerks
and their sons, “ jure hereditari0.''

In Italy, during the tenth century, Ra·
therius Bishop of Verona, after vainly at·

 

