INTRODUCTION. . xl

persecuting him to the death with the most
virulent hostility.

longbeanl repaired to Coeur de Li0n3
and, availing himself of the intimacy which
he had acquired, he denounced Richard
Fitz Oshert as a buitur, a conspirator
against the life of the King. Such was his
devotion towards hisSovereign,he declared,
that he would not spare his brother at the
expence of his allegiance. We are told (Noas.)
hyNeubrigensiS‚ that the accusation was
spurned by the King‚ and, as this writer
conjectures, on account of his horror at
suchunnaturalcruelty. ltmaybedoubted,
however, whether Richard, who was hinr-
sell so devoid of natural affection, could
be actuated by such a motiva. And the
authentic record of the proceeding will
enable us to rectily the statements os the
chronicler.

21 Nova 194. ς Χ. It appears then, hythe entries noscas.

upon the Roll, that on the Morrow 0f goffrid voti.

St. Edrnund‚ in the sixth year ol Ric. 1.‚

William Fitz Oshert preferred his appeal
before the J astices at Westminster against
RichardFitz Oshert, lris brother. Speaking
ns a witness— lor every Appellant sup·
ported his complaint by his own positive
testimony—he affirmed that a ruceting was
held in the “ stone house ’' of the said

 

